Let's see how this faceting
operation went, shall we?
Insert, I don't know, bling joke here
about diamonds having facets or something,
gonna have to work on
my stand-up material.
All right, so we said that in
order to add facets to our chart,
it's a matter of adding
this facet property with
a configuration object into
the config options of the plot.
Which when we're using this
syntax where we do plot.mark,
in this case dot, and
then .plot, it'll come there.
And in the previous syntax that we
looked at where we called plot.plot and
then passed in a mark's array can just
come in that general call to plot.
So, all right,
what we're gonna wanna do here is, again,
remember to add commas,
very difficult for me.
[LAUGH] We'll specify that
we want to facet this plot.
And then we are going to always
tell the facet operation what
data we want to base our splitting or
faceting operation on.
And in this case,
it is the same devices data that we've
been using for our marks,
so the same dataset here.
And then we pass in
the mapping of the feature of
the dataset that we want to split on,
which in this case is the Device category,
right?
We tell then the faceting operation
which channel we want it to split on.
So in this case, we could try the x-axis.
So once I've done that,
we go from having this single dot plot to,
if I press my little Play button
here to evaluate my new facet code,
we'll see three different dot plots that
have each of them just one single color.
Well, more or less, we've got some
overlapping data points here based
on those data points that have higher
values than we allowed for in our axes.
But that's okay, we'll breeze on by that.
So here we've got these three side by
side plots, desktop, mobile, and tablet.
And now, since we don't have so
much overlap between the different device
categories, we can see some of the points,
especially on the less frequently
used devices, like mobile and tablet.
We can see some of the points that were
a little bit obscured by the other data,
by the desktop data,
in the original plot, right?
So for example, some of these red
dots here that are in this landscape
orientation where the width
is higher than the height, so
the width is bigger than the height.
Those are more easily identifiable now
that we've split the plots up by device.
And did anybody else tries splitting
across the y-axis instead?
So if we wanna play around with that,
we can try that as well.
And your mileage varies.
Depending on what your data looks like and
on what your output format looks like,
how much real estate you have in
your dashboard or what have you.
You might wanna choose one or the other
to give folks a better visual experience
based on the specifics of your dataset and
where you're putting these graphics.
But in this case, I don't know,
which one do folks prefer?
I think it's a little bit more readable
in the x direction, I'm seeing some nods.
But maybe we have different perceptions,
that is entirely valid.
And that's why having the possibility to
customize these things is so important,
because every person is different and
every dataset is different.
But for now, let's say x-axis is fine.
Awesome, so please interrupt
me if there are any questions.
But otherwise, we have successfully
finished our second project.
So we wrangled some data using
a basic map operation, but still,
we made ourselves think about exactly
what we needed to be visualizing.
Like, for example, the width and
height each taking their own channel,
made sense for us to wrangle that out.
Okay, so just to continue
our recap of this project.
So we did some data wrangling to make our
lives easier in the visualization step.
Although, again, we can do some transforms
in the visualization step as well.
So your comfort with,
let's say, using functions to
transform strings to numbers
in the plot is totally valid,
versus doing it beforehand
with the map operation.
Your mileage may vary, so
whatever feels best to you, go for it.
Then we took a look at aggregation by
means of group transforms in plot.
Which we can use with categorical
variables to create aggregation
operations, like, for example,
summing up all of the users observed for
a particular device category.
And then we saw a new type of mark,
the .mark,
which we used to create an informative
plot, a scattered plot or
dot plot of different device categories
using all these different channels, fill,
opacity, radius, R,
to convey different features of the data.
And finally,
we took a look at faceting as a means of
revealing some of those details that might
get obscured if we're smushing all of
the data together into one visualization.
And highlighting the perhaps
harder to notice features from,
especially some of the smaller
subsets of the data,
by putting each category of
device in its own smaller plot.